Release 16-10-2024 (#231)
LiskHQ/lisk-docs: build-blockchain-app.md

For a full list of all config options and their default values, see the [List of configuration options](configuration.md#list-of-configuration-options) or the file [config_devnet.json](https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-sdk/blob/development/sdk/src/samples/config_devnet.json) on Github.

#### 2.b Register custom transaction types
Transactions are the main way for users to add data to the blockchain.
The most basic transaction types that are part of nearly any blockchain are for example a transaction type for creating a new account on the network, or a transaction type to send tokens from one account to another.
Depending on the use-case for your network, you need to pick the fitting transaction types for your application.

For comparison, see a [list of all transaction types](../lisk-protocol/transactions), which are implemented in the Lisk Protocol.

The Lisk Core transaction types are already implemented in Lisk Elements as part of the [@liskhq/lisk-transactions](../lisk-sdk/lisk-elements/packages/transactions.md) package.

> See the [Examples page](examples.md) for creating custom transaction types and how to add them to the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the [Examples page](examples.md) for creating custom transaction types and how to add them to your application.
```

### 3. Interact with the network
While your network is up and running, use [Lisk Commander](../lisk-sdk/lisk-commander/introduction.md) to interact with the network via the CLI (Command-Line-Interface).
To monitor and explore the network, you may want to set up a monitoring solution like e.g. [Lisk Explorer](https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-explorer).

> Depending on the level of customization, it might be needed to customize the Lisk Explorer and Lisk Commander as well, or otherwise certain services might fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on the level of customization, Lisk Explorer and Lisk Commander may require some configuration to prevent certain services from failing.
```
We can't say specifically which services these might be, right?

Author: no, this depends on the level of customization and what is customized, so could be nearly anything ;) I would stick to term `customization`, as `configuration` indicates for me, I can just set some configuration options differently and it will work again, but that's not always the case as normally the user would need to fork the project and make the changes inside of the code logic.

```suggestion
Depending on the level of customization, Lisk Explorer and Lisk Commander may require some customization to prevent certain services from failing.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on the level of customization,  Lisk Explorer and Lisk Commander as well, or otherwise certain services might fail.
```

```suggestion
Depending on the level of customization, Lisk Explorer and Lisk Commander may also require customization to prevent other services from failing.
```

OK makes sense, how about he above?

> Another simple way to interact with the network is by connecting to it with [Lisk Hub](https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-hub).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another simple way to interact with the network is by connecting it to [Lisk Hub](https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-hub).
```

> Another simple way to make first interactions with the network is by connecting to it with [Lisk Hub](https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-hub).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another simple way to interact with the network is by connecting to it with [Lisk Hub](https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-hub).
```

> Lisk Hub provides a simple and beautiful user interface to create and manage accounts in the network and to interact with it by sending different types of transactions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lisk Hub provides a simple and beautiful user interface to create and manage accounts on the network, and also to interact with the network by sending different types of transactions.
```

> Lisk Hub provides a simple and beautiful User Interface to create and manage accounts in the network and to interact with it by sending different types of transactions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lisk Hub provides a simple and beautiful user interface to create and manage accounts in the network and to interact with it by sending different types of transactions.
```

> When everything works as expected, it is time to build a nice frontend for your application, so that users are happy to use it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once your blockchain is finished, and it is possible to send the transactions and custom transactions your use case requires,  you can create a frontend to allow users to interact and use your blockchain application.
```

> Once your blockchain is finished, and it is possible to send the transactions and custom transactions your use case requires,  you can create a frontend to allow users to interact and use your blockchain application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once your blockchain is finished, and it is possible to send the transactions (and custom transactions), you can create a frontend to allow users to interact and use your blockchain application.
```

> To let your frontend interact with the network, we recommend to make use of [Lisk Elements' packages](../lisk-sdk/lisk-elements/packages.md) like [lisk-api-client](../lisk-sdk/lisk-elements/packages/api-client.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To connect your frontend to your network, we recommend to make use of [Lisk Elements' packages](../lisk-sdk/lisk-elements/packages.md) like [lisk-api-client](../lisk-sdk/lisk-elements/packages/api-client.md).
```

# Build a blockchain application

## What is a blockchain application?

Blockchain applications communicate within a network to agree upon which data is valid and should be stored, or whether it should be rejected and bad actors potentially punished.
The set of blockchain rules is already implemented by Lisk modules and libraries.
By re-using them and implementing the well-designed [Lisk SDK Framework](../lisk-sdk/introduction.md), it's easy to compose new case-specific applications.
Explore more great content of Blockchain Business in [Lisk Academy](https://lisk.io/academy/blockchain-business/blockchain-in-business).

> ## How to build a blockchain application with the Lisk SDK

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## How to build a blockchain application with the Lisk SDK?
```

Author: I wouldn't add the `?` here, imho

The Lisk SDK consists of the following tools:

- [Lisk Framework](../lisk-sdk/lisk-framework/introduction.md): Consists of a selection of various Modules and Components which each provide specific functionality or logic related to blockchain networks.
- [Lisk Elements](../lisk-sdk/lisk-elements/introduction.md): Collection of NPM packages that provide blockchain- and lisk-specific functionalities.
- [Lisk Commander](../lisk-sdk/lisk-commander/introduction.md): Command line tool to interact with the network and maintain a node.

### 1. Setup the SDK
To get started in building a blockchain application, [set up the Lisk SDK](../lisk-sdk/introduction.md#setup).

The [Modules](../lisk-sdk/lisk-framework/introduction.md#modules) of the [Lisk Framework](../lisk-sdk/lisk-framework/introduction.md) come with a set of predefined default configurations, that allow you to start and test out your network immediately.

To get the blockchain application started for the first time, follow the steps described in the [Lisk SDK - Usage](../lisk-sdk/introduction.md#usage) section.

> ### 2. Configure and customize the application

Reviewer 2: ## Add new **custom transaction** types to implement an application use-case

Author: about headings, maybe @LindsaysDarkAlley can give some feedback here. I personally prefer more catchy headings than long ones.

> #### 2.a Configure Modules and Components

Reviewer 2: ## Customise blockchain parameters to suit an application use-case

> After the first successful start, feel free to [configure](../lisk-sdk/lisk-framework/introduction.md#configuration) the [Modules](../lisk-sdk/lisk-framework/introduction.md#modules) and [Components](../lisk-sdk/lisk-framework/introduction.md#components), suited to your specific needs.

Reviewer 2: Start from the genesis config.

Introduce the full config of the modules, mention it's the same process as configuring a network node.

Author: I do explain this on the `configuration.md` page of the Lisk SDK. See my other open PR: #209 
https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-docs/blob/205-sdk-introduction/configuration.md

Above, I link to this file, so all information should be there.

It is possible as well to exchange Modules with other ones, or to add new Modules that provide new functionality.

To see which ready-to-use Modules and Components already exist, check out the [list of Modules](../lisk-sdk/lisk-framework/introduction.md#list-of-core-modules) and [list of Components](../lisk-sdk/lisk-framework/introduction.md#components).

> #### 2.b Design custom transaction types

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: What should this be replaced with?

Transactions are the main way for users to add data to the blockchain.
The most basic transaction types that are part of nearly any blockchain are for example a transaction type for creating a new account on the network, or a transaction type to send tokens from one account to another.
Depending on the use-case for your network, you need to pick the fitting transaction types for your application.

For comparison, see a [list of all transaction types](../lisk-protocol/transactions), which are implemented in the Lisk Protocol.

The Lisk Core transaction types are already implemented in Lisk Elements as part of the [@liskhq/lisk-transactions](../lisk-sdk/lisk-elements/packages/transactions.md) package.

See the [Examples page](examples.md) for creating custom transaction types and how to add them to the application.

> #### 2.c Write own Modules

Reviewer 2: Let's have this part only in the framework section.

It's better to focus on the most important and fully supported parts of the SDK on the introduction page, i.e.:
1. Customise blockchain parameters to suit an application use-case
2. Add new custom transaction types to implement an application use-case

Lisk Framework provides a [BaseModule](https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-sdk/blob/development/framework/src/modules/base_module.js) class for this purpose, which every new module needs to inherit from.
The `BaseModule` class defines all required methods, the Lisk Framework expects for successful communication to the application or to other Modules.

> For convenience, you may want to reuse the packages of [Lisk Elements](../lisk-sdk/lisk-elements/introduction.md) inside of your custom Module, which provide related functionalities for creating blockchain applications, like [@liskhq/lisk-cryptography](../liks-elements/packages/cryptography.md).

Lisk Framework initializes the Modules and controls their communication between each other and with the application as a whole.
To do this, each Module creates its' own communication channel, where it can publish events that it wants to share with the whole application.
Modules can passively listen to certain events that have been published by other Modules, or they can actively ask for information from other Modules.

> ### 3. Build the frontend

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 3. How to interact with my network?
```

Author: ```suggestion
### 3. Interact with the network
```
